HTTPS METHOD

Brief History:
      HTTPS which is the acronym of Hypertext Transfer protocol Secure, is the language and the foundation for data communication for the World Wide Web(W.W.W i.e. internet) since 1990. It is the primary standard used to distributing and collaborating encrypted data between a web browser and webpages over a secured connection.
    
Importace
    * HTTPS prevents websites from having their broadcast in a way thats easily viewed by anyone snooping the network.
    * HTTPS helps encrypt traffic such that even if the packets are sniffed or intercepted, they will come across as nonsensical error/character.
    * Without HTTPS, Internet Service Providers(ISP) or any other Intermediaries can inject content into the webpages without an authorize approval from the website owner.

HTTPS Methods:
    There are about officially 39 list of http methods. But there are 5 essential method that re commonly/essentially used by Appalication programming Interface(API). They are:

GET : 
    The "GET" method is used to retieve information from the given server using a given URL. Request using "GET" only retrieves data. 

HEAD : 
    The "HEAD" method is used to transfer status line and header section only. Request using the "HEAD" method ask for a response identical to that of "GET" but without the response body.

POST :
    The "POST' request is used to send data to the servers. The kind/types of POST request are; customers information, file upload an lots more. And it can be done using HTML forms.

PUT :
    This is used to replace all current representations of the target resources with the uploaded content. PUT method places a  resource precisely at a specific URI. In case a resource already exists at that URI, the PUT method replaces that resource. If there is no file or resource, PUT creates a new one.

DELETE :
    This removes all current representations of the target resources given by the URL. Sending the same HTTP DELETE request multiple times will have the same effect on the server and will not additionally affect the state or cause additional side effects. 

PATCH :
     PATCH isnused to modify resources. the PATCHrequest only needs to contain changes to the resources, not the the complete resouces. in other words, the body contains a set of instructions describing how a resource residing on the server should work . Which inturn produces a newer/latest version.

IN SUMMARY : HTTP gives users a way to interact with web resources such as HTML files by transmitting hypertext messages between clients and servers.